# Self Driving Cars: Finding Lane Lines on the Road

---

## Dependencies
* Python 3.5 or later
* Numpy
* OpenCV
* Matplotlib
* Moviepy

## Using the Pipeline on Images
* Add the orignal image to the test_images folder 
* Run the lane_detection.py file 
* The result images are saved in image_result folder

## Using the Pipeline on Videos
* Add the orignal video to the test_videos folder
* Run the lane_detection.py file
* The result videos are saved in video_result folder


## About
<p style="text-align: justify;">
This work is based on my summer internship at IIT Delhi in 2015. The project derives its base from the machine learning and data mining framework called <a href="http://vegas.informatik.uni-oldenburg.de/index.html">windML</a>. The windML framework provides various tools for machine learning based analysis of real-time wind energy time series data. This project further develops this framework to implement a Bootstrap Aggregation (Bagging) based system to improve upon the already available spatio-temporal regression models for accurate wind power forecasting. The project is implemented in python using <a href="http://vegas.informatik.uni-oldenburg.de/index.html">windML</a>, and <a href="http://scikit-learn.org">Sklearn</a> python libraries.</p>
<h2><span style="text-decoration: underline;"><strong>Why Wind Power Forecasting?</strong></span></h2>
<p style="text-align: justify;">With the ever-increasing energy demand and increasing focus towards reducing global warming, the renewable energy sources like wind and solar energy are going to play a crucial role in future energy infrastructure. But this increased penetration of wind energy (and solar for that matter) is not without its problems. The major issue with the wind energy is its high level of uncertainty which can lead to wide-scale instability in the connected power grids. To tackle this problem we need to generate high accuracy prediction model for these energy sources. Further with the availability of a large amount of time series electricity generation data the prediction task is much more solvable than it ever was.</p>

<h2><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Wind Power Forecasting as a Regression Problem</span></h2>
<p style="text-align: justify;">Wind power forecasting problem for a single turbine can be formulated as a time series regression problem. Depending on the time of forecast it can be classified into short-term (30, 60, 90 minutes ahead), medium-term (Day Ahead, Week Ahead) and long-term forecasting problem. In this case, we would tackle a short-term forecasting problem by using the power data at $latex t-\mu+1$, $latex t-\mu+2$....., $latex t-1$ and $latex t$ time instants to forecast power at $latex  t+\lambda$ time instant. So, at any time instant $latex t$ the power $latex P_{t+\lambda}$ can be seen as a function of power $latex P_{t-\mu+1}$, $latex P_{t-\mu+2}$..... $latex P_{t-1}$ and $latex P_{t}$. Further, the future power can also be correlated with the difference of power at the previous time instances ($latex P_{t-\mu+2} - P_{t-\mu+1}$, $latex P_{t-\mu+3} - P_{t-\mu+2}$.....and $latex P_{t} - P_{t-1}$).  Here $latex \lambda$ is called time horizon and $latex \mu$ is called feature window. So, in this case we have ($latex 2\mu +1$) features to predict power $latex P_{t+\lambda}$.</p>

<h2><u>Spatio-Temporal Regression model for Wind Power Forecasting</u></h2>
<p style="text-align: justify;">To forecast the power generated by a turbine, the regression model discussed so far uses of its own time series. To further improve the forecast we can use time series data of its neighbor turbines. As these neighbor turbines have to face the same wind (delayed or advanced depending upon the wind direction), their power time series data is easy to correlate with the target turbine. If in a given area, there are $latex N-1$ neighbor turbines, the total number features are $latex N(2\mu +1)$ now. So, the power produced by target turbine $latex 1$ at time $latex t+\lambda$ ($latex P^{1}_{t+\lambda}$) is a function of $latex N(2\mu +1)$ features denoted by $latex P^{k}_{t-j}$, where $latex k$ denotes the $latex k^{th}$ turbine (varying between $latex 1$ to $latex N$) and $latex t-j$ denotes previous time instant (varying between $latex t-\mu+1$ and $latex t$).</p>

<h2><u>Bootstrap Aggregation of Regression Models</u></h2>
<p style="text-align: justify;">So far the discussed regression problem can be formulated as:
$latex P^{1}_{t+\lambda}$ = $latex f(P^{k}_{t-j})$
Here $latex f$ is function that maps the forecasted power to the $latex N(2\mu +1)$ spatio-temporal features. This function is approximated by a machine-learning model as a function $latex f_i$. But being approximate this function is not unique. We can develop different approximate models using different machine-learning techniques (like Support Vector Machines, Random Forest, Neural Network etc.) and by varying hyper-parameters of a single technique. All of these functions show some overfitting resulting in error during the forecast. One way of reducing this overfitting is to apply an ensemble technique called weighted bootstrap aggregation (or weighted bagging) to combine all machine-learning approximated functions. If we train $latex M$ different machine-learning methods to find $latex M$ approximations of the mapping function $latex f$, the overall regression problem can be formulated as:
$latex P^{1}_{t+\lambda}$ = $latex \frac{1}{\sum \alpha_i}\sum \alpha_i f_i(P^{k}_{t-j})$
Here $latex \alpha_i$ is the weight for approximation $latex f_i$.</p>

## For more information and results
https://wp.me/p9KXJx-T

## Contributers
Avinash Sharma: avinashmnit30@gmail.com

## License and Copyright
© Avinash Sharma

